OKAY SO NOW IT'S TIME TO RUN OUR gradient descent scroll down a little bit.
Hit the plus sign at a few cells and this cell I'm going to convert to markdown and I'm going to call
this cell the subheading Batch gradient descent with simple high shift enter now with gradient descent.
The first thing is when I do a bit of setup to provide the initial values for the parameters and we're
going to specify these up top.
And these were things like the multiplier and the maximum number of iterations.
So going to say multiplier is equal to zero point one
I must say the max underscore it is equal to two hundred.
And now I'm gonna supply my initial values.
So previously we've had a single variable and we've just said you know new X is equal to.
And then there was our guess one point eight something.
But this time we have two values.
So how we're gonna do this this time.
If you have two or more values the best data structure to work with is a num pi array.
So messy parameters is equal to an P array.
Open parentheses square brackets and the numbers apply to values.
Our initial guess for X which is gonna be one point eight and comma and then our initial guess for our
y which is going to be one point zero.
And this is our initial guess.
So put that in a comment in the same line after the python code.
Now one thing that you'll see when we write our loop is just how convenient this is because the parameter
is going to hold the values that we actually care about optimizing.
It has our X and our y values and these need to be changed to get to the lowest cost.
Previously we won't have to worry about one variable and we were using previous underscore X and you
underscore X inside our loop but this time we're gonna switch it up and write it a little differently
because we're working with a collection instead loop is going to have a very very similar syntax as
before we're gonna say for n in range and then provide the maximum number of iterations.
Colon do something.
Step 1.
It's gonna be working out the slope if you remember the slope that we had up here was def f of A and
B with respect to a dot a Val F and then substituting a particular value.
So this is actually the format we're gonna be using.
So what's our gradient gonna be in the x direction.
I'm going to create a variable called gradient underscore X instead of equal to you guessed it it's
diff F A and B
comma a.
This is gonna be our cost function differentiated with respect to X. dot e Val f open parentheses and
then we're gonna substitute some value as you can see subs it's equal to and then we gonna provide that
dictionary.
So curly braces and we're gonna say A is gonna be equal to what it's gonna be equal to the first element
in our parameter array.
It's gonna be paradigms square brackets first element is at 0 and then for our B we're gonna say B semicolon
paradigms square brackets and then 1.
So there's a lot going on in this line here and this is why we've practiced in the cell above a little
bit to make sure we can get our head around all of this nesting of the code but we're differentiating
our cost function with respect to one of the parameters with respect to a and we're evaluating the slope
whereas where we're asking Python to figure out what the value is of the slope at a particular point
which point is that it's going to be the values in our parameter array.
So param 0 and parameters 1 the very very first time this loop runs those are gonna be equal to our
initial guess.
So as a challenge can you create a variable called gradient under school y and then complete the rest
of the code.
Can you write the python code that calculates the value of our slope in the y direction.
I'll give you a few seconds to pause the video and have a go at this
and here's the solution again we're using diff parentheses f of a and b.
And this time we're not gonna be differentiating our cost function with respect to a we're gonna be
differentiating it with respect to B because B is our second parameter and it could have done after
it.
C E Val F and I when a substitute the same dictionary I'm gonna say a colon prams.
Square brackets 0 comma B colon paradigms square brackets one amid a typo in prams.
So I'm gonna fix that and this is my finished Python code for our gradients.
Now I've split this up a little bit to make it a bit easier to read but I said earlier what we actually
want to do is we want to work with arrays primarily because if you're working with more than one value
it's handy to work with NUM pi arrays.
So let's combine these two values into a single num pi array.
Some C gradients is equal to N.P. array parentheses and then square brackets gradient underscore X comma
gradient underscore y closing square brackets closing parentheses.
So in these three lines of code we have calculated our cost.
We've calculated how far away we are from the minimum based on the steepness of the slope.
So the next step is updating our parameters.
This is the learning step the most important part of our loop right.
And because we've written our Python code and used num pi arrays we can actually work with this in a
very very nice and easy to read manner.
We can see our new value of our parameter Ray so paradigms is equal to it should be equal to our old
values.
So paradigms minus the multiplier times are gradients array.
So we're multiplying our gradients array with the learning rate.
So the learning rate times all the slopes.
It's gonna be subtracted from the current values of our parameters.
So this is updating them and then we're storing those values inside the parameter array.
So we're replacing the values inside the parameters the old ones with the new ones so these are the
old ones on the right hand side of the equation.
We're doing some calculation with them and then we're overwriting those values in our parameter array
by updating them.
This is what this line of code does and that's our for loop done just for lines of code.
Now it's time to maybe print out the results.
I'm going to say pound symbol results and then we're gonna print out maybe the values in our gradient
array so we can see the values of our slopes.
So when see values in a gradient array comma gradients.
I want to print out the final value of r x so after the optimization has run.
So when I say minimum occurs at x value of.
And then has the final optimized value gonna be stored.
Well it's gonna be stored in our parameter array at value 0 first value in our parameter.
Right.
And I'm also going to print out the minimum because at y value of and this is gonna be the second value
in our parameter array.
It's gonna be at index 1 and finally I'm going to print out what the cost is at these x and y values.
So want to see the cost is has a string then a comma and then how do I calculate the cost at the final
values of our X and Y.
The optimized values I don't have to substitute them into our cost function which is F and then the
first parameter is gonna be parameters square brackets zero and then a comma and then paradigms square
bracket one and that's it.
That's all I have to do is a check if I've made any typos and then run this cell.
See what we get.
Here we go.
So we can see here that the minimum cost is around zero point five and that are x and y values are actually
very very small.
If we look at our chart appear then we can see that this minimum is probably going to occur where X
and Y are equal to zero.
And on the z axis we know that this is probably going to be around 1 1/2.
Scrolling back down to our cell here let's see if this is true.
Let's see what happens if I run this cell instead of two hundred times maybe five hundred times and
head shift into got wait a little longer this could take some time to execute and I can see here indeed
our minimum cost is tough initially zero point five and an hour x and y values have gotten very very
very small so that's really really cool right.
We've been able to keep our mathematics that we had to do by hand to a minimum having a conceptual understanding
of what's going on got us very very far and we also saw the power of working with arrays and being able
to update a whole bunch of values at once and in addition we learned a little bit about a new data structure
namely dictionaries which associate values with a key.
So you have a key value pair and on that note I think I'm gonna get some more coffee or something.
I'll see you in the next lesson.
Take care.